README.md, before:

# PHASE-1-PROJECT
This is the project done by Tracy Mumbi Naomi as required for the completion of the first section of Software Engineering course <a href="https://moringaschool.com/" target="_blank">Moringa School</a>, Nairobi,.

## RECIPE APP
The objective of this projct is to provide the user with an app where they can get recipies for different types of food and they are able to see the instructions for cooking the foods.<br> <br>
## Github Code
<strong>Use <a href = "https://tracymumbi.github.io/Phase-1-Project/">this </a> to get the deployed site</strong>

## Guide on how to run the application
### What you need to get started
<ul>
 <li>Have node js installed on your computer. <br>Use <a
href="https://nodejs.org/en/">this</a> to get instructions on how to install
node.</li> <li>Have json-server installed on your computer.<br> Use <a
href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/json-server">this</a> to get instructions on
how to install json-server.</li> <li>Use any code editor that has similar or
more capability to <a href="https://code.visualstudio.com/">VS code</a>.<br>I
recommend you use VS code editor with the <a
href="https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ritwickdey.LiveServer">live
server</a> extension.</li> </ul> 
<br> 
<h3> Running the project </h3>
<ul> <li>Fork
and clone this repository in to your computer</li> <li>Open the project-folder
using VS code.</li> <li>Click on <strong>Go Live</strong> at the bottom right of
the VS code window.<br>This will open your default browser and display the
contents of the <strong>index.html</strong>.<br></li> <li>Open a terminal and navigate to the project
directory. ie.".../phase-1-project"</li>
<br>
<h3>Navigating through the project</h3>
<p>From this point, you can: 
<ul>
<li>Search the type of food that you would like to get the recipe for.</li>
<li>See the categories of different foods.</li>
<li>See the instructions of any food that is searched.</li>
<li>Post feedback.</li>
<br><br>

### Criteria Met
<ul> <li>A dummy authentication page. This can include either a login or signup form. For extra challenge; include both. The page does not need any real authentication mechanism, <strong>dummy data is enough.</strong></li>
<li>A navigation menu with at least 3 menu options that is persistent throughout the entire application. (Positioning of the navigation menu is absolutely dependent on your own preference.)</li>
<li>Your application must provide some form of search functionality.
It should contain at least three html forms.</li>

<li>Every single repository should have a detailed<strong> README file </strong>explaining how to setup the codebase upon cloning/forking. 
You should have regular git commits and the commit messages should be clear and concise.
<li>Your application must be deployed and accessible through a remote URL. (You can choose whichever deployment platform you wish)</li>
<li>Your project should be structured in an organized manner.</li>
<li>Your web application should have proper styling. Ensure it looks professional and clean.</li>
<li>Your repository should include a license. <a href = "https://docs.github.com/en/communities/setting-up-your-project-for-healthy-contributions/adding-a-license-to-a-repository">(Adding a license to a repository - GitHub Docs) </a></li>

## RECIPE APP
### INTRODUCTION
The recipe app is used by anybody who wants to cook and doesn't really know how to cook or even the steps on how to cook specific foods.<br>This app provides the user with a search functionality where they can search the specific food that they would want, then it provide him/her with the food searched together with a picture of the food and also clear instructions on how to make the food.<br>

Use <a href = "https://tracymumbi.github.io/Phase-1-Project/">this </a> to get the deployed site

## API USED 
Click <a href = "https://www.themealdb.com/api.php"> here</a> to get the api used.

### Acknowledgement
<strong><a href="">Moringa School</a></strong><br>Having a good Software
Engineering curriculum and the resources to guide the students through it.
<br> <p> <strong>Dominic Kiprotich(Technical Mentor)</strong><br> Identified
this as a good project idea and gave the go ahead for the project.<br>Guided the
class through the class content which has been used in the project. </p> <br>

## LICENSE
 MIT License

## AUTHOR
Tracy Mumbi Naomi

### Contributions
Contributions are always welcome!

Please adhere to this project's `code of conduct`.

Commit message:

final commit. added db.json file

README.md, after:

# PHASE-1-PROJECT
This is the project done by Tracy Mumbi Naomi as required for the completion of the first section of Software Engineering course <a href="https://moringaschool.com/" target="_blank">Moringa School</a>, Nairobi,.

## RECIPE APP
The objective of this projct is to provide the user with an app where they can get recipies for different types of food and they are able to see the instructions for cooking the foods.<br> <br>
## Github Code
<strong>Use <a href = "https://tracymumbi.github.io/Phase-1-Project/">this </a> to get the deployed site</strong>

## Guide on how to run the application
### What you need to get started
<ul>
 <li>Have node js installed on your computer. <br>Use <a
href="https://nodejs.org/en/">this</a> to get instructions on how to install
node.</li> <li>Have json-server installed on your computer.<br> Use <a
href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/json-server">this</a> to get instructions on
how to install json-server.</li> <li>Use any code editor that has similar or
more capability to <a href="https://code.visualstudio.com/">VS code</a>.<br>I
recommend you use VS code editor with the <a
href="https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ritwickdey.LiveServer">live
server</a> extension.</li> </ul> 
<br> 
<h3> Running the project </h3>
<ul> <li>Fork
and clone this repository in to your computer</li> <li>Open the project-folder
using VS code.</li> <li>Click on <strong>Go Live</strong> at the bottom right of
the VS code window.<br>This will open your default browser and display the
contents of the <strong>index.html</strong>.<li>Run <strong>json-server --watch
db.json</strong> or <strong>json-server lib.json</strong>in the terminal<br></li> <li>Open a terminal and navigate to the project
directory. ie.".../phase-1-project"</li>
<br>
<h3>Navigating through the project</h3>
<p>From this point, you can: 
<ul>
<li>Search the type of food that you would like to get the recipe for.</li>
<li>See the categories of different foods.</li>
<li>See the instructions of any food that is searched.</li>
<li>Post feedback.</li>
<br><br>

### Criteria Met
<ul> <li>A dummy authentication page. This can include either a login or signup form. For extra challenge; include both. The page does not need any real authentication mechanism, <strong>dummy data is enough.</strong></li>
<li>A navigation menu with at least 3 menu options that is persistent throughout the entire application. (Positioning of the navigation menu is absolutely dependent on your own preference.)</li>
<li>Your application must provide some form of search functionality.
It should contain at least three html forms.</li>

<li>Every single repository should have a detailed<strong> README file </strong>explaining how to setup the codebase upon cloning/forking. 
You should have regular git commits and the commit messages should be clear and concise.
<li>Your application must be deployed and accessible through a remote URL. (You can choose whichever deployment platform you wish)</li>
<li>Your project should be structured in an organized manner.</li>
<li>Your web application should have proper styling. Ensure it looks professional and clean.</li>
<li>Your repository should include a license. <a href = "https://docs.github.com/en/communities/setting-up-your-project-for-healthy-contributions/adding-a-license-to-a-repository">(Adding a license to a repository - GitHub Docs) </a></li>

## RECIPE APP
### INTRODUCTION
The recipe app is used by anybody who wants to cook and doesn't really know how to cook or even the steps on how to cook specific foods.<br>This app provides the user with a search functionality where they can search the specific food that they would want, then it provide him/her with the food searched together with a picture of the food and also clear instructions on how to make the food.<br>It also provides the user with a button where you can add your recipe to the site

Use <a href = "https://tracymumbi.github.io/Phase-1-Project/">this </a> to get the deployed site

## API USED 
Click <a href = "https://www.themealdb.com/api.php"> here</a> to get the api used.

### Acknowledgement
<strong><a href="">Moringa School</a></strong><br>Having a good Software
Engineering curriculum and the resources to guide the students through it.
<br> <p> <strong>Dominic Kiprotich(Technical Mentor)</strong><br> Identified
this as a good project idea and gave the go ahead for the project.<br>Guided the
class through the class content which has been used in the project. </p> <br>

## LICENSE
 MIT License

## AUTHOR
Tracy Mumbi Naomi

### Contributions
Contributions are always welcome!

Please adhere to this project's `code of conduct`.
